Next two videos
we're going to learn about auto fit, auto fill,
and min max, and I'd say after,
I don't know, six months, a year of using CSS grid,
along with grid template columns,
the auto fit, auto fill and min max
are probably my most used pieces of grid.
So get ready, it's gonna be exciting!
So open up 12 auto fit and auto fill,
we're first gonna learn about what they are,
and what the differences are,
and then we're going to look at min max
where you're gonna, it will probably click
and go, "oh, that's super handy."
So, I've got a whole bunch of items here,
and now I've got the word "item" in it,
because I want these to be a little bit bigger,
and actually have some content inside of them,
and we'll go and start to make some columns,
so say grid template columns,
and we're going to repeat.
And instead of saying repeat something like,
I don't know, five at 100 px,
that will just give us five,
and you don't really know how many will fit,
because the content of these items
could be bigger, could be smaller,
depends on what is actually inside of them,
and it's likely not just numbers
like we've been doing so far.
So we have these key words called auto fill and auto fit,
and let's see what they do.
So auto fill, let's do that first,
and let's try 150 px,
right here we have to sort of guess
how big one will be,
but in the next video we're going to show
how we can automatically size them.
So what does auto fill do?
So actually you don't tell it how many columns you want,
you just say, I don't know, figure it out,
see how much content is in each one,
and then figure out how many you could possibly fit in that.
So I've got my dev tools open,
I've got the grid Dev Tools turned onto my container here.
Now when I resize this, you'll see that
what's happening is as I resize
the actual items
are just jumping onto the next line,
and as there is just enough space
to actually put another one,
it's gonna reflow the actual value there
and break onto the next line.
So that's great.
What is auto fit?
As an alternative to that?
That doesn't seem to do anything different,
so what's the auto fill?
It doesn't do anything,
it looks like they're actually doing the exact same thing.
So let me actually show you what the difference is.
The difference is that when you don't have enough items
to fill up the entire width or the height of a grid.
So let's bring this down to four items,
delete everything up until four,
and then give that a save.
Now what we see here
is that when we have auto fill on,
it will sort of like chop up the grid
into as many spaces as it can,
so it looks like that here,
we can fit four five six spots,
and then you see it ends the explicit grid,
this is the edge of the explicit grid here,
and then there's just a little bit of extra
that is wasted space, because we can't fit it.
But as we were to make it bigger,
it's gonna pop on an extra one,
you see go back, on and off, on and off,
just as we have space for that one.
The difference with auto fill and auto fit,
watch how we have it now,
give it a save, you'll notice that it actually ends
the grid right here.
It actually also, it still shows us that we have
seven tracks, but they seem to all be piled
on top of each other.
I'm not sure if that's actually
how it's supposed to work,
or if that's just a bug in laying out all the items there,
but you see that the grid actually stops right here,
and there's nothing done to the right.
Now why would that be helpful?
Well, if we bring it back to auto fill,
let's say I wanted to put this item here,
and this is something I do quite often,
where maybe you've got a bunch of buttons here
and then you want to like put something on
the very right side, what we could do,
is we select item4, and we just say, grid column,
auto, or start it wherever it normally would start,
and we're going to end it at the end,
which is negative one.
Alternatively we could just say
grid column end,
and just give it an ending value,
and you see what happens is that
it tacks it onto the end of wherever the grid will end
rather than putting it right where it would normally flow
at the four line.
Now if we were to change that from fill to fit,
there's no way to tack it onto the end, because,
there is no extra columns being added here,
you would simply just end it right here.
So how do you tell the difference between one?
Well, you try one,
and if it's not what you want,
it's probably the other one. (laughs)
That's the best that I can think about
remembering it.
Now, that's not all that useful,
but in the next video, we're going to be looking at
something called min max
where auto fit and auto fill
do something a little bit different.
So I'll see you in that video.